[RF DOCS] Active Model Basics Documentation [ci-skip] (#2)
Ridhwana/rails: guides/source/active_model_basics.md

Active Model Basics
===================

This guide will provide you with what you need to get started using Active
Model. Active Model provides a way for Action Pack and Action View helpers to
interact with plain Ruby objects. It also helps to build custom ORMs for use
outside of the Rails framework.

After reading this guide, you will know:

* What Active Model is?
* How to use Active Model in your classes.
* The different modules that are included in Active Model.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is Active Model?
---------------------

To understand Active Model, you need to know a little about [Active
Record](active_record_basics.html). Active Record is an ORM (Object Relational
Mapper) that connects objects whose data requires persistent storage to a
relational database. However, it has functionality that is useful outside of the
ORM, some of these include validations, callbacks, translations, the ability to
create custom attributes etc.

Some of this functionality was abstracted from Active Record to form Active
Model. Active Model is a library containing various modules that can be used on

> plain ruby objects that require model-like features but are not tied to any

Reviewer: Ruby with a capital R

> **DO NOT READ THIS FILE ON GITHUB, GUIDES ARE PUBLISHED ON
> https://guides.rubyonrails.org.**

Reviewer 2: Nit: Let's try to keep this one in a single line for now.

```suggestion
**DO NOT READ THIS FILE ON GITHUB, GUIDES ARE PUBLISHED ON https://guides.rubyonrails.org.**
```

Active Model Basics
===================

This guide will provide you with what you need to get started using Active
Model. Active Model provides a way for Action Pack and Action View helpers to
interact with plain Ruby objects. It also helps to build custom ORMs for use
outside of the Rails framework.

After reading this guide, you will know:

> * What Active Model is?

Reviewer 2: Perhaps not a question?

```suggestion
* What Active Model is.
```

It might be interesting to keep a connection with Active Record from here too, maybe something like this?

```suggestion
* What Active Model is, and how it relates to Active Record.
```

> * What Active Model is?

Reviewer: I don't think you need the question mark at the end of this first point. 'What Active Model is' is a sentence in its own right.

* How to use Active Model in your classes.

> * The different modules that are included in Active Model.

Reviewer 2: Maybe reverse the order here? Feels like learning about the modules comes before learning how to use in your classes, or rather, using in your classes comes with / as you learn the different modules.

```suggestion
* The different modules that are included in Active Model.
* How to use Active Model in your classes.
```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is Active Model?
---------------------

To understand Active Model, you need to know a little about [Active
Record](active_record_basics.html). Active Record is an ORM (Object Relational
Mapper) that connects objects whose data requires persistent storage to a
relational database. However, it has functionality that is useful outside of the
ORM, some of these include validations, callbacks, translations, the ability to

> create custom attributes etc.

Reviewer: Comma before etc: 'create custom attributes, etc.'

Some of this functionality was abstracted from Active Record to form Active
Model. Active Model is a library containing various modules that can be used on
plain Ruby objects that require model-like features but are not tied to any
table in a database.

Some of these modules are explained below.

### API

`ActiveModel::API` adds the ability for a class to work with [Action
Pack](https://api.rubyonrails.org/files/actionpack/README_rdoc.html) and [Action

> View](action_view_overview.html) right out of the box.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should use the first opportunity where each module is mentioned, to link to their relative API doc, e.g.:

```suggestion
[`ActiveModel::API`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/API.html)
adds the ability for a class to work with [Action
Pack](https://api.rubyonrails.org/files/actionpack/README_rdoc.html) and [Action
View](action_view_overview.html) right out of the box.
```

Not everything will have great documentation, but at least there's a link between them in case there's more to learn there.

When including `ActiveModel::API`, other modules are included by default which
enables you to get features like:

- [Attribute Assignment](active_model_basics.html#attribute-assignment)
- [Conversion](active_model_basics.html#conversion)
- [Naming](active_model_basics.html#naming)
- [Translation](active_model_basics.html#translation)

> - [Validations](active_model_basics.html#validations)

Reviewer 2: Since these are on the same guide, we should be able to simply use the anchor to reference them:

```suggestion
- [Attribute Assignment](#attribute-assignment)
- [Conversion](#conversion)
- [Naming](#naming)
- [Translation](#translation)
- [Validations](#validations)
```

Model. Active Model provides a way for Action Pack and Action View helpers to
interact with plain Ruby objects. It also helps to build custom ORMs for use
outside of the Rails framework.

After reading this guide, you will know:

* What Active Model is, and how it relates to Active Record.
* The different modules that are included in Active Model.
* How to use Active Model in your classes.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is Active Model?
---------------------

To understand Active Model, you need to know a little about [Active
Record](active_record_basics.html). Active Record is an ORM (Object Relational
Mapper) that connects objects whose data requires persistent storage to a
relational database. However, it has functionality that is useful outside of the
ORM, some of these include validations, callbacks, translations, the ability to
create custom attributes etc.

Some of this functionality was abstracted from Active Record to form Active
Model. Active Model is a library containing various modules that can be used on
plain Ruby objects that require model-like features but are not tied to any

> table in a database.

Reviewer 3: This is great. "What's the difference between Active Record and Active Model?" is a common question I hear. I'm wondering should we drive home the difference between Active Record and Active Model further with something like this: 

"While Active Record provides an interface for defining models that correspond to database tables, Active Model provides functionality for building model-like Ruby classes that don't necessarily need to be backed by a database. Active Model can be used independently of Active Record, and it's not limited to database interactions."

Author: I like this a lot, I'll incorporate it. Thanks!

The `attributes` method returns a hash of all the attributes with their names as keys and the values of the attributes as values.

```irb
irb> person = Person.new
irb> person.name = "John"
irb> person.date_of_birth = "1998-01-01"
irb> person.active = false

irb> person.attributes
=> {"name"=>"John", "date_of_birth"=>Thu, 01 Jan 1998, "active"=>false}
```

### Attribute Assignment

Attribute Assignment allows you to set an object's attributes by passing in a hash of attributes with keys matching the attribute names. This is useful when you want to set multiple attributes at once.

Consider the following class:

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::AttributeAssignment

  attr_accessor :name, :date_of_birth, :active
end
```

You can set multiple attributes at once using the `assign_attributes` method:

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

# using the `assign_attributes` method to set multiple attributes at once
irb> person.assign_attributes(name: "John", date_of_birth: "1998-01-01", active: false)

# check the values of the attributes that were assigned
irb> person.name
=> "John"
irb> person.date_of_birth
=> Thu, 01 Jan 1998
irb> person.active
=> false
```

> If the passed hash responds to the `permitted?` method and the return value of this method is `false`, an `ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributesError` exception is raised.

Author: I was trying to figure out what a code sample of this may look like.

end
```

```irb
irb> email_contact = EmailContact.new(name: "David", email: "david@example.com", message: "Hello World")

irb> email_contact.name # attribute assignment
=> "David"

irb> email_contact.to_model == email_contact # conversion
=> true

irb> email_contact.model_name.name # naming

> => EmailContact

Reviewer 2: Should this be a string?

```suggestion
irb> email_contact.model_name.name # naming
=> "EmailContact"
```

Reviewer 3: ```
>> e = EmailContact.new(name: "David", email: "david@example.com", message: "Hello World")
=> #<EmailContact:0x00007fc6148da388 @email="david@example.com", @message="Hello World", @name="David">

>> e.model_name.name
=> "EmailContact"
```

irb> email_contact.human_attribute_name("name") # translation if the locale is set

> => "Name"

Reviewer 2: I believe `human_attribute_name` is a method added to the class, not the instance:

```ruby
>> email_contact.human_attribute_name("name")
(irb):19:in `<main>': undefined method `human_attribute_name' for an instance of EmailContact (NoMethodError)

>> EmailContact.human_attribute_name("name")
=> "Name"
```

Suggestion:

```suggestion
irb> EmailContact.human_attribute_name("name") # translation if the locale is set
=> "Name"
```

Author: Yes! thank you for catching this!

irb> email_contact.valid? # validations
=> true
```

Any class that includes `ActiveModel::API` can be used with `form_with`,
`render` and any other [Action View helper
methods](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers.html), just like
Active Record objects.

For example, `form_with` can be used to create a form for an `EmailContact`
object as follows:

> ```erb+html

Reviewer 2: It looks like `erb+html` doesn't render nicely, it has to be `html+erb`

<details><summary>Details</summary>
<p>

_before_
![Screenshot 2024-02-15 at 11 39 21](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/b03c22a5-7c7f-4a67-a9c4-aafcf9ebcfd2)

_after_
![Screenshot 2024-02-15 at 11 40 33](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/acccfe29-a447-4690-b7dd-eb854700ed7d)

</p>
</details> 

```suggestion
```html+erb
```

<%= form_with model: EmailContact.new do |form| %>
  <%= form.text_field :name %>
<% end %>

# =>

> <form action="/email_contacts" method="post" data-remote="true">

Reviewer 2: It doesn't look like rails main is generating a data-remote attribute anymore:

<img width="456" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-15 at 13 32 24" src="https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/ff284a72-856a-440b-bceb-87685cc2ec0d">

```suggestion
<form action="/email_contacts" method="post">
```

This should be the default according to the config: https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/configuring.html#config-action-view-form-with-generates-remote-forms

>   <input type="text" name="email_contact[name]">

Reviewer 2: Just for completeness, let's include the input id, which should be generated by default on new Rails apps:

```suggestion
  <input type="text" name="email_contact[name]" id="email_contact_name"/>
```

This should be the default according to the config: https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/configuring.html#config-action-view-form-with-generates-ids

</form>
```

`render` can be used to render a partial with the object as a local variable:

> ```erb+html

Reviewer 2: See above.

```suggestion
```html+erb
```

> <%= render partial: "email_contact", email_contact: EmailContact.new(name: "David", email: "david@example.com", message: "Hello World") %>

Reviewer 2: In this form, `email_contact` is passed as an option to `render partial:` not as a local variable to the partial you're rendering, meaning the partial wouldn't have access to the `email_contact` variable.

When using `render partial:`, one must use `locals: {}` to pass variables, e.g.:

```erb
<%= render partial: "email_contact", locals: { email_contact: EmailContact.new(name: "David", email: "david@example.com", message: "Hello World") } %>
```

That can be shorted by passing the partial name directly, instead of the `partial:` option:

```suggestion
<%= render "email_contact", email_contact: EmailContact.new(name: "David", email: "david@example.com", message: "Hello World") %>
```

In which case `email_contact` (and any other values there) are treated as locals.

We could in theory shorten it to use a variable since the whole object has already been shown above, so it's probably enough context: (we're not gonna explain render here anyway)

```suggestion
<%= render "email_contact", email_contact: email_contact %>
```

or instance var, as it's commonly used from a controller:

```suggestion
<%= render "email_contact", email_contact: @email_contact %>
```

Reviewer 3: I like the instance var `@email_contact` fwiw

```

### Attributes

> `ActiveModel::Attributes` allows you to define data types, set default values,

Reviewer 2: Related to previous comment, regarding linking to the API on first instance, this could be where we'd do it.

and handle casting and serialization on plain Ruby objects. This can be useful
for form data which will produce Active Record-like conversion for things like
dates and booleans on regular objects.

> To use Attributes, include the module in your model class and define your

Reviewer 2: Since `Attributes` refers to the module, let's use the code syntax:

```suggestion
To use `Attributes`, include the module in your model class and define your
```

attributes using the `attribute` macro. It accepts a name, a cast type, a
default value, and any other options supported by the attribute type.

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::Attributes

  attribute :name, :string
  attribute :date_of_birth, :date
  attribute :active, :boolean, default: true
end
```

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

irb> person.name = "Jane"
irb> person.name
=> "Jane"

# casts the string to a date set by the attribute
irb> person.date_of_birth = "2020-01-01"
irb> person.date_of_birth
=> Wed, 01 Jan 2020
irb> person.date_of_birth.class
=> Date

> # obtains the default value set by the attribute

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# uses the default value set by the attribute
```

```irb
irb> Person.attribute_names
=> ["name", "date_of_birth", "active"]
```

#### Method: `attributes`

The `attributes` method returns a hash of all the attributes with their names as
keys and the values of the attributes as values.

```irb
irb> person = Person.new
irb> person.name = "John"
irb> person.date_of_birth = "1998-01-01"
irb> person.active = false

irb> person.attributes
=> {"name"=>"John", "date_of_birth"=>Thu, 01 Jan 1998, "active"=>false}
```

### Attribute Assignment

`ActiveModel::AttributeAssignment` allows you to set an object's attributes by
passing in a hash of attributes with keys matching the attribute names. This is
useful when you want to set multiple attributes at once.

Consider the following class:

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::AttributeAssignment

  attr_accessor :name, :date_of_birth, :active
end
```

You can set multiple attributes at once using the `assign_attributes` method:

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

# using the `assign_attributes` method to set multiple attributes at once
irb> person.assign_attributes(name: "John", date_of_birth: "1998-01-01", active: false)

> # check the values of the attributes that were assigned

Reviewer 2: Minor: It seems very self-explanatory that we're just showing the set values here, we could get by without the extra comment.

Reviewer: I found the comments useful from a beginner's perspective, but after seeing Carlos' comment and reading through this section again, the same thing is indeed written three times: 
"This is useful when you want to set multiple attributes at once."
"You can set multiple attributes at once using the `assign_attributes` method:"
"# using the `assign_attributes` method to set multiple attributes at once"

I would suggest:
Keep this line: "This is useful when you want to set multiple attributes at once."
Remove this line: "You can set multiple attributes at once using the `assign_attributes` method:"
Tweak this line: "# use `assign_attributes` to set multiple attributes at once"

irb> person.name
=> "John"
irb> person.date_of_birth
=> Thu, 01 Jan 1998
irb> person.active
=> false
```

If the passed hash responds to the `permitted?` method and the return value of
this method is `false`, an `ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributesError` exception is
raised.

#### Method alias: `attributes=`

The `assign_attributes` method has an alias `attributes=`.

INFO: A method alias is a method that performs the same action as another
method, but is called something different.

The following example demonstrates the use of the `attributes=` method to set
multiple attributes at once:

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

# using the `attributes= method` to set multiple attributes at once
irb> person.attributes = { name: "John", date_of_birth: "1998-01-01", active: false }

irb> person.name
=> "John"

# using the `assign_attributes` method to set multiple attributes at once
irb> person.assign_attributes(name: "Jane")

irb> person.name

> => "Jane"

Reviewer 2: Minor suggestion: I think for simplicity we can just show the `attributes=` example here, it's clear it's essentially doing the same, without interchanging with `assign_attributes` in the example. (it took me a split second to realize the "John" vs "Jane" change)

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Question: why does `assign_attributes` use () but `attributes=` uses {} to pass the same attributes? Does the `attributes=` alias only accept hashes? And if so, should this be mentioned?

Reviewer 2: Both are method calls, but while `assign_attributes` is generally seen as a "normal" method call which may or may not contain `()`, `attributes=` is commonly considered an attribute/property "setter" and does not use `()`. Any value can be passed to setters, not only Hashes using `{}`. (it just so happens that hashes may or may not require the explicit `{}`, it's a Ruby language thing)

In fact, `assign_attributes` is actually being called with a hash the same way that `attributes=` is, except the `{}` can be omitted in arguments for method calls most of the time, but this would be totally valid: 

```ruby
>> person.assign_attributes({ name: "Jane" })
=> {:name=>"Jane"}
```

And `attributes=` can be called with `()` as well:

```ruby
>> person.attributes = ({ name: "John" })
=> {:name=>"John"}

# in this case, however, Ruby doesn't like omitting `{}`:
>> person.attributes=(name: "John")
(irb):46: syntax error, unexpected label (SyntaxError)
```

Since both `assign_attributes` and `attributes=` are essentially the same, they _expect_ a hash as argument. But that's not a requirement for methods / setters.

Reviewer 3: > Question: why does `assign_attributes` use () but `attributes=` uses {} to pass the same attributes? Does the `attributes=` alias only accept hashes? And if so, should this be mentioned?

That is a really good question!

Author: I love this question and I think a lot of folks would not know this offhand. I'd love to add it to the guides but I'm trying to decide whether to add a little INFO block here, or maybe since this can apply in many contexts, I can add a miscellaneous section, any thoughts?  I'm leaning towards a miscellaneous section.

irb> person.date_of_birth
=> "1998-01-01"
```

### Attribute Methods

`ActiveModel::AttributeMethods` provides a way to define methods dynamically for
attributes of a model. This module is particularly useful to simplify attribute
access and manipulation, and it can add custom prefixes and suffixes to the
methods of a class. You can define the prefixes and suffixes and which methods
on the object will use them as follows:

1. Include `ActiveModel::AttributeMethods` in your class.
2. Call each of the methods you want to add, such as `attribute_method_suffix`,
   `attribute_method_prefix`, `attribute_method_affix`.
3. Call the `define_attribute_methods` after the other methods to declare the

>    attribute that should be prefixed and suffixed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Call `define_attribute_methods` after the other methods to declare the
   attribute(s) that should be prefixed and suffixed.
```

4.  Define the various generic `_attribute` methods that you have declared. The
    parameter `attribute` in these methods will be replaced by the argument

>     passed in `define_attribute_methods`. In our case it is `name`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Define the various generic `_attribute` methods that you have declared. The
   parameter `attribute` in these methods will be replaced by the argument
   passed in `define_attribute_methods`. In the example below it's `name`.
```

NOTE: `attribute_method_prefix` and `attribute_method_suffix` are used to define
the prefixes and suffixes that will be used to create the methods.
`attribute_method_affix` is used to define both the prefix and suffix at the
same time.

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::AttributeMethods

  attribute_method_affix prefix: "reset_", suffix: "_to_default!"
  attribute_method_prefix "first_"

>   attribute_method_prefix "last_"

Reviewer 2: It's possible to define multiple attribute methods with a single call, so we could merge these two:

```suggestion
  attribute_method_prefix "first_", "last_"
```

  attribute_method_suffix "_short?"

  define_attribute_methods "name"

  attr_accessor :name

  private

>   # this will create a method 'first_name'

Reviewer 2: These don't really "create" a method (they're technically created by `define_attribute_methods`), they implement how to respond when calling to the already defined attribute methods. We might need to tweak the comments of these methods to clarify it.

For example, `first_attribute` is called when you call `person.first_name`, it delegates to something like `first_attribute("name")`.

  def first_attribute(attribute)
    public_send(attribute).split.first
  end

  # this will create a method 'last_name'
  def last_attribute(attribute)
    public_send(attribute).split.last
  end

  # this will create a method 'name_short?'
  def attribute_short?(attribute)
    public_send(attribute).length < 5
  end

  # this will create a method 'reset_name_to_default!'
  def reset_attribute_to_default!(attribute)
    public_send("#{attribute}=", "Default Name")
  end

> 

Reviewer 2: Nit: remove extra blank line before closing `end`

```suggestion
```

end
```

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

> irb> person.name = "Jane Doe"

Reviewer 2: I like the spacing for organizing the examples, but for simple initialization like this I think we can just do one on each line, to save some vertical space:

```suggestion
irb> person.name = "Jane Doe"
```

# utilizing the `first_name` and `last_name` prefix methods
irb> person.first_name
=> "Jane"
irb> person.last_name
=> "Doe"

# utilizing the `name_short?` suffix method
irb> person.name_short?
=> false

# utilizing the `reset_name_to_default!` prefix and suffix methods
irb> person.reset_name_to_default!
=> "Default Name"
```

> If you call a method that is not defined, it will raise a `method_missing`

Reviewer 2: Might be better to show the actual exception:

```suggestion
If you call a method that is not defined, it will raise a `NoMethodError`
```

error.

#### Method: `alias_attribute`

`ActiveModel::AttributeMethods` also provides aliasing of attribute methods.
This can be done by using the `alias_attribute` method.

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::AttributeMethods

>   attribute_method_suffix '_short?'

Reviewer 2: Nit: Double quotes for consistency among the examples.

```suggestion
  attribute_method_suffix "_short?"
```

  define_attribute_methods :name

  attr_accessor :name

  alias_attribute :nickname, :name

  private

  def attribute_short?(attribute)
    public_send(attribute).length < 5
  end

> 

Reviewer 2: Nit: remove extra blank line before closing `end`

```suggestion
```

end
```

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

irb> person.name = "Joe"

irb> person.name

> => "Joe"

Reviewer 2: I mentioned above about simple init / setters like this, that might be fine to keep them as a single unit/block, they're generally not the main piece of the example and saves some vertical space:

```suggestion
irb> person = Person.new
irb> person.name = "Joe"
irb> person.name
=> "Joe"
```

# `nickname` is the alias for `name`, and returns the same value
irb> person.nickname
=> "Joe"
irb> person.name_short?
=> true

# `nickname_short?` is the alias for `name_short?`, and returns the same value
irb> person.nickname_short?
=> true
```

### Callbacks

`ActiveModel::Callbacks` gives plain Ruby objects Active Record style callbacks.
The callbacks allow you to hook into model lifecycle events, such as
`before_update` and `after_create`, as well as to define custom logic to be
executed at specific points in the model's lifecycle.

You can implement `ActiveModel::Callbacks` by following the steps below:

1. Extend `ActiveModel::Callbacks` in your class.
2. Using `define_model_callbacks`, define a list of methods that you want
   callbacks attached to. When you define a method like `:update`, it will

>    provide all three standard callbacks (before, around and after) for the

Reviewer 2: Might be nice to highlight the callback types:

```suggestion
   provide all three standard callbacks (`before`, `around` and `after`) for the
```

   `:update` method.
3. Wrap the methods you want callbacks on in a block so that the callbacks get a
   chance to fire.
4. Then in your class, you can use the `before_create`, `after_create`, and

>    `around_create` methods, just as you would in an Active Record model.

Reviewer 2: I think these are `*_update`?

```suggestion
4. Then in your class, you can use the `before_update`, `after_update`, and
   `around_update` methods, just as you would in an Active Record model.
```

Author: Yes it should be, I updated the example at the end and forgot to change the text, Thanks!

  include ActiveModel::AttributeMethods

  attribute_method_affix prefix: "reset_", suffix: "_to_default!"
  attribute_method_prefix "first_", "last_"
  attribute_method_suffix "_short?"

  define_attribute_methods "name"

  attr_accessor :name

  private

  # Attribute method call for 'first_name'
  def first_attribute(attribute)
    public_send(attribute).split.first
  end

  # Attribute method call for 'last_name'
  def last_attribute(attribute)
    public_send(attribute).split.last
  end

  # Attribute method call for 'name_short?'
  def attribute_short?(attribute)
    public_send(attribute).length < 5
  end

  # Attribute method call 'reset_name_to_default!'
  def reset_attribute_to_default!(attribute)
    public_send("#{attribute}=", "Default Name")
  end
end
```

```irb
irb> person = Person.new
irb> person.name = "Jane Doe"

irb> person.first_name
=> "Jane"
irb> person.last_name
=> "Doe"

irb> person.name_short?
=> false

irb> person.reset_name_to_default!
=> "Default Name"
```

If you call a method that is not defined, it will raise a `NoMethodError` error.

#### Method: `alias_attribute`

`ActiveModel::AttributeMethods` provides aliasing of attribute methods using the

> `alias_attribute` method.

Reviewer 2: I re-read this one a couple of times, maybe we can tweak it a bit:

```suggestion
`ActiveModel::AttributeMethods` provides aliasing of attribute methods using
`alias_attribute`.
```

In the example below, we create an alias attribute for `name` called
`full_name`. They return the same value, but the alias `full_name` better

> reflects that the attribute includes a first name and last name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example below creates an alias attribute for `name` called `full_name`. They
return the same value, but the alias `full_name` better reflects that the
attribute includes a first name and last name.
```

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::AttributeMethods

  attribute_method_suffix "_short?"
  define_attribute_methods :name

  attr_accessor :name

  alias_attribute :full_name, :name

  private

  def attribute_short?(attribute)
    public_send(attribute).length < 5
  end

> end

Reviewer 2: Do you think it'd be too much of a stretch to piggyback on the previous example, something like:

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::AttributeMethods

  # attribute method definitions ...

  alias_attribute :full_name, :name
end
```

Or could that be confusing? I was trying to think that this would mean "introducing the `alias_attribute` call after the attribute methods are defined, you'd get the following:" without having to show a full example. (to shorten it a bit)

Author: I tried it locally but I found it a bit confusing and think the verbosity of the example makes it a bit more clear.

Reviewer 2: Following the guide top to bottom, that context would be set by the previous example, but it makes sense when looking at that section in isolation.  :+1:

```

```irb
irb> person = Person.new
irb> person.name = "Joe Doe"
irb> person.name
=> "Joe Doe"

# `full_name` is the alias for `name`, and returns the same value
irb> person.full_name
=> "Joe Doe"
irb> person.name_short?
=> false

# `full_name_short?` is the alias for `name_short?`, and returns the same value
irb> person.full_name_short?

> => true

Reviewer 2: This isn't returning the same value as above :)

Author: Whoops I updated the example and made some changes that got this mixed up. Will double check the code and the return values. Thank you for catching it!

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

# Using strong parameters checks, build a hash of attributes similar to params from a request
irb> params = ActionController::Parameters.new(name: "John")
=> #<ActionController::Parameters {"name" => "John"} permitted: false>

irb> person.assign_attributes(params)
=> # Raises ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributesError
irb> person.name
=> nil

# Permit the attributes we want to allow assignment
irb> permitted_params = params.permit(:name)
=> #<ActionController::Parameters {"name" => "John"} permitted: true>

irb> person.assign_attributes(permitted_params)
irb> person.name
=> "John"
```

#### Method alias: `attributes=`

The `assign_attributes` method has an alias `attributes=`.

INFO: A method alias is a method that performs the same action as another
method, but is called something different. Aliases exist for the sake of
readability and convenience.

The following example demonstrates the use of the `attributes=` method to set
multiple attributes at once:

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

irb> person.attributes = { name: "John", date_of_birth: "1998-01-01", active: false }

irb> person.name
=> "John"
irb> person.date_of_birth
=> "1998-01-01"
```

> ##### Why does `assign_attributes` use `()` but `attributes=` use `{}` to pass the same attributes?

Author: Based on [this conversation](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/pull/2#discussion_r1497379173), I've added this section. I considered adding to a miscellaneous section at the bottom of this guide but it felt too far removed from the original context. I would have possibly preferred to put this in an INFO (albeit it may be too long for an info box), however, I could not get the syntax quite right to include the code samples. 

If anyone has thoughts ot feedback, feel free to drop them here.

Reviewer: This may be over-rotating on on explanation but it's definitely something that I feel a beginner would find useful. Although reading this, I still find it a little confusing, so if possible slimming it down would be better.

Would be curious to hear what the other 2 think of this level of explanation. 

And it's a pity we can't fit it into an info box, that would make much more sense. I don't suppose there's a way to explain without the additional code snippets?

Reviewer 2: It's tricky to find the right balance of how much detail to give, because we are mostly explaining Ruby syntax at this point. How much of that we need to touch may vary on a case-by-case basis, but in general I don't think we need to get into every single bit of the Ruby language.

Here's a potential suggestion to shorten that to an info box:

```
INFO: `assign_attributes` and `attributes=` are both method calls, and accept
the hash of attributes to assign as argument. In many cases Ruby allows parens
`()` from method calls, and curly braces `{}` from hash definitions, to be
omitted. "Setter" methods like `attributes=` are commonly written without `()`,
even though including them works the same, and they require the hash to always
include `{}`: `person.attributes=({ name: "John" })` is fine, but
`person.attributes = name: "John"` results in a `SyntaxError`. Other method
calls like `assign_attributes` may or may not contain both parens `()` and `{}`
for the hash argument. For example, `assign_attributes name: "John"` and
`assign_attributes({ name: "John" })` are both perfectly valid Ruby code, however
`assign_attributes { name: "John" }` is not, because Ruby can't differentiate
that hash argument from a block, and will raise a `SyntaxError`.
```

![Screenshot 2024-02-26 at 10 55 40](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/4f68f00a-08e6-4412-8e47-74e5927322dd)

I tried to include some examples within the paragraph, there's no need to show the output but I think at least show one or two examples of what is valid and sometimes invalid adds to the explanation. We might be able to omit a bit more if that needs to be shortened further.

Author: Thank you for taking a stab at this Carlos! I think it reads really well! I know that we're trying to shorten it, but I find myself being overwhelmed by the single long paragraph and so I added some line breaks in the middle:

<img width="675" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-26 at 23 37 09" src="https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/2786819/335d149f-91ee-4d19-890e-145e20879c78">

Reviewer 2: Looks great!

end
```

```irb
irb> email_contact = EmailContact.new(name: "David", email: "david@example.com", message: "Hello World")

irb> email_contact.name # attribute assignment
=> "David"

irb> email_contact.to_model == email_contact # conversion
=> true

irb> email_contact.model_name.name # naming
=> EmailContact

irb> email_contact.human_attribute_name("name") # translation if the locale is set
=> "Name"

irb> email_contact.valid? # validations

> => true

Reviewer 3: Would it make sense to add an invalid example too?
```suggestion
=> true

irb> empty_contact = EmailContact.new
irb> empty_contact.valid?
=> false
```

```

Any class that includes `ActiveModel::API` can be used with `form_with`,
`render` and any other [Action View helper
methods](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers.html), just like
Active Record objects.

For example, `form_with` can be used to create a form for an `EmailContact`
object as follows:

> ```html+erb

Reviewer 3: Nice. I didn't know you can do that.

```

### Attributes

`ActiveModel::Attributes` allows you to define data types, set default values,
and handle casting and serialization on plain Ruby objects. This can be useful
for form data which will produce Active Record-like conversion for things like
dates and booleans on regular objects.

To use Attributes, include the module in your model class and define your
attributes using the `attribute` macro. It accepts a name, a cast type, a
default value, and any other options supported by the attribute type.

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::Attributes

  attribute :name, :string
  attribute :date_of_birth, :date
  attribute :active, :boolean, default: true
end
```

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

irb> person.name = "Jane"
irb> person.name
=> "Jane"

# casts the string to a date set by the attribute
irb> person.date_of_birth = "2020-01-01"
irb> person.date_of_birth
=> Wed, 01 Jan 2020
irb> person.date_of_birth.class
=> Date

# uses the default value set by the attribute
irb> person.active
=> true

# casts the string to a boolean set by the attribute

> irb> person.active = "0"

Reviewer 3: Is there a reason why it has to be a string? If not, using `0` might be cleaner for the example.

```
>> person.active = 0
=> 0
>> person.active
=> false
>> person.active = 1
=> 1
>> person.active
=> true
```

```suggestion
irb> person.active = 0
```

Author: Thanks, an integer makes more sense, updated accordingly!

irb> person.active
=> false
```

Some additional methods described below are available when using
`ActiveModel::Attributes`.

#### Method: `attribute_names`

The `attribute_names` method returns an array of attribute names.

```irb
irb> Person.attribute_names
=> ["name", "date_of_birth", "active"]
```

#### Method: `attributes`

The `attributes` method returns a hash of all the attributes with their names as
keys and the values of the attributes as values.

```irb

> irb> person = Person.new
> irb> person.name = "John"
> irb> person.date_of_birth = "1998-01-01"
> irb> person.active = false
> 
> irb> person.attributes
> => {"name"=>"John", "date_of_birth"=>Thu, 01 Jan 1998, "active"=>false}

Reviewer 3: Maybe we could use the `person` we already have? To minimize the amount of code a reader has to process. Just a suggestion.

```suggestion
>> person.attributes
=> {"name"=>"Jane", "date_of_birth"=>Wed, 01 Jan 2020, "active"=>true}
```

```

### Attribute Assignment

`ActiveModel::AttributeAssignment` allows you to set an object's attributes by
passing in a hash of attributes with keys matching the attribute names. This is
useful when you want to set multiple attributes at once.

Consider the following class:

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::AttributeAssignment

  attr_accessor :name, :date_of_birth, :active
end
```

You can set multiple attributes at once using the `assign_attributes` method:

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

# using the `assign_attributes` method to set multiple attributes at once
irb> person.assign_attributes(name: "John", date_of_birth: "1998-01-01", active: false)

# check the values of the attributes that were assigned
irb> person.name
=> "John"
irb> person.date_of_birth
=> Thu, 01 Jan 1998
irb> person.active
=> false
```

If the passed hash responds to the `permitted?` method and the return value of
this method is `false`, an `ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributesError` exception is
raised.

#### Method alias: `attributes=`

The `assign_attributes` method has an alias `attributes=`.

> INFO: A method alias is a method that performs the same action as another

Reviewer: Can we say why a method alias would be used?

Author: Updated to read:

INFO: A method alias is a method that performs the same action as another
method, but is called something different. Aliases exist primarily for the sake of
readability and convenience.

method, but is called something different.

The following example demonstrates the use of the `attributes=` method to set
multiple attributes at once:

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

# using the `attributes= method` to set multiple attributes at once
irb> person.attributes = { name: "John", date_of_birth: "1998-01-01", active: false }

irb> person.name
=> "John"

> # using the `assign_attributes` method to set multiple attributes at once

Reviewer 3: This particular case it isn't multiple attributes. I'm also up for removing this comment as well, as it may not be adding much.
```suggestion
# using the `assign_attributes` method
```

`attribute_method_affix` is used to define both the prefix and suffix at the
same time.

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::AttributeMethods

  attribute_method_affix prefix: "reset_", suffix: "_to_default!"
  attribute_method_prefix "first_"
  attribute_method_prefix "last_"
  attribute_method_suffix "_short?"

  define_attribute_methods "name"

  attr_accessor :name

  private

  # this will create a method 'first_name'
  def first_attribute(attribute)
    public_send(attribute).split.first
  end

  # this will create a method 'last_name'
  def last_attribute(attribute)
    public_send(attribute).split.last
  end

  # this will create a method 'name_short?'
  def attribute_short?(attribute)
    public_send(attribute).length < 5
  end

  # this will create a method 'reset_name_to_default!'
  def reset_attribute_to_default!(attribute)
    public_send("#{attribute}=", "Default Name")
  end
end
```

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

irb> person.name = "Jane Doe"

# utilizing the `first_name` and `last_name` prefix methods
irb> person.first_name
=> "Jane"
irb> person.last_name
=> "Doe"

# utilizing the `name_short?` suffix method
irb> person.name_short?
=> false

> # utilizing the `reset_name_to_default!` prefix and suffix methods

Reviewer 3: Nit: these 3 comments starting with "utilizing.." can be removed IMO. To keep the code snippets clean and remove repetition.

irb> person.reset_name_to_default!
=> "Default Name"
```

If you call a method that is not defined, it will raise a `NoMethodError`
error.

#### Method: `alias_attribute`

> `ActiveModel::AttributeMethods` also provides aliasing of attribute methods.

Reviewer: Again with aliasing: why would one want to do this? Is there anything we can add to explain this just a bit for beginners? I can clearly follow the example below to see how it works, but I don't get why one would want to do this. Especially in this example where the alias is longer than the original attribute name ('nickname' vs 'name').

Author: I've added the "why" to the alias info further up, but then I also added some more context specific descriptions here. 

I've also changed the example from 'name with an alias of nickname', to 'name with an alias of full_name' because it's more common to alias "name" with "full_name" to be more descriptive that the attribute includes the first name and  last name.

This can be done by using the `alias_attribute` method.

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::AttributeMethods

  attribute_method_suffix '_short?'
  define_attribute_methods :name

  attr_accessor :name

  alias_attribute :nickname, :name

  private

  def attribute_short?(attribute)
    public_send(attribute).length < 5
  end

end
```

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

irb> person.name = "Joe"

irb> person.name
=> "Joe"

# `nickname` is the alias for `name`, and returns the same value
irb> person.nickname
=> "Joe"
irb> person.name_short?
=> true

# `nickname_short?` is the alias for `name_short?`, and returns the same value
irb> person.nickname_short?
=> true
```

### Callbacks

> `ActiveModel::Callbacks` gives plain Ruby objects Active Record style callbacks.

Reviewer: Should we link to the Active Record Callbacks guide? https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_callbacks.html

Can be a link, or can be an info box.

The callbacks allow you to hook into model lifecycle events, such as
`before_update` and `after_create`, as well as to define custom logic to be
executed at specific points in the model's lifecycle.

> You can implement `ActiveModel::Callbacks` by following the steps below:

Reviewer: I like the addition of steps throughout this model. Nice touch.

1. Extend `ActiveModel::Callbacks` in your class.
2. Using `define_model_callbacks`, define a list of methods that you want
   callbacks attached to. When you define a method like `:update`, it will
   provide all three standard callbacks (before, around and after) for the
   `:update` method.

> 3. Wrap the methods you want callbacks on in a block so that the callbacks get a

Reviewer: I don't understand this step. Is there another way to write it?

=> "David"

irb> email_contact.to_model == email_contact # conversion
=> true

irb> email_contact.model_name.name # naming
=> EmailContact

irb> email_contact.human_attribute_name("name") # translation if the locale is set
=> "Name"

irb> email_contact.valid? # validations
=> true
```

Any class that includes `ActiveModel::API` can be used with `form_with`,
`render` and any other [Action View helper
methods](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers.html), just like
Active Record objects.

For example, `form_with` can be used to create a form for an `EmailContact`
object as follows:

```erb+html
<%= form_with model: EmailContact.new do |form| %>
  <%= form.text_field :name %>
<% end %>

# =>
<form action="/email_contacts" method="post" data-remote="true">
  <input type="text" name="email_contact[name]">
</form>
```

`render` can be used to render a partial with the object as a local variable:

```erb+html
<%= render partial: "email_contact", email_contact: EmailContact.new(name: "David", email: "david@example.com", message: "Hello World") %>
```

### Attributes

`ActiveModel::Attributes` allows you to define data types, set default values,

> and handle casting and serialization on plain ruby objects. This can be useful

Reviewer: Ruby with a capital R

irb> person.name = "John"
irb> person.date_of_birth = "1998-01-01"
irb> person.active = false

irb> person.attributes
=> {"name"=>"John", "date_of_birth"=>Thu, 01 Jan 1998, "active"=>false}
```

### Attribute Assignment

`ActiveModel::AttributeAssignment` allows you to set an object's attributes by
passing in a hash of attributes with keys matching the attribute names. This is
useful when you want to set multiple attributes at once.

Consider the following class:

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::AttributeAssignment

  attr_accessor :name, :date_of_birth, :active
end
```

You can set multiple attributes at once using the `assign_attributes` method:

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

# using the `assign_attributes` method to set multiple attributes at once
irb> person.assign_attributes(name: "John", date_of_birth: "1998-01-01", active: false)

# check the values of the attributes that were assigned
irb> person.name
=> "John"
irb> person.date_of_birth
=> Thu, 01 Jan 1998
irb> person.active
=> false
```

If the passed hash responds to the `permitted?` method and the return value of
this method is `false`, an `ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributesError` exception is

> raised.

Author: I was trying to figure out what a code example looks like for this but could use some guidance if anyone has any ideas.

Reviewer 2: `permitted?` is really for "strong params" integration, i.e. if assigning a `params` attribute coming from a request.

We could possibly link to the controller guide where it talks about strong params: https://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_controller_overview.html#strong-parameters.

One possible example we could show if you wanted to include something: (maybe too extensive? not sure, feel free to tweak / simplify it as you'd like)

```ruby
irb> person = Person.new

# using strong parameters checks, build a hash of attributes similar to params from a request
irb> params = ActionController::Parameters.new(name: "John")
=> #<ActionController::Parameters {"name"=>"John"} permitted: false>

irb> person.assign_attributes(params)
=> # raises ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributesError
irb> person.name
=> nil

# permit the attributes we want to allow assignment
irb> permitted_params = params.permit(:name)
=> #<ActionController::Parameters {"name"=>"John"} permitted: true>

irb> person.assign_attributes(permitted_params)
irb> person.name
=> "John"
```

Author: Thanks, I don't think its too extensive - it gets the example across clearly.

  define_model_callbacks :update

  before_update :reset_me
  after_update :finalize_me
  around_update :log_me

  def update
    run_callbacks(:update) do
      puts "update method called"

>       # This is the callback method executed when `update` is called on an object.

Reviewer 2: Thinking out loud: Mentioning `callback method` might give an impression that the content here has relation to the callback implementation, this is essentially the body of the `update` method, except wrapped in `run_callbacks` to fire them appropriately. It could be just the word `callback` in there giving this wrong impression maybe?

Reviewer: Should these comments come before the code like throughout the rest of the guide? I think it would read better that way.
Also, sometimes comments begin lowercase and sometimes uppercase. We should choose one style and stick to it.

    end
  end

> 

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest making the methods below private, similar to how it's done for `AttributeMethods` for instance, since that's generally how one would implement these:

```suggestion

  private

```

    # When update is called on an object, then this method is called by `before_update` callback
  end

  def finalize_me
    puts "finalize_me method: called after the update method"
    # When update is called on an object, then this method is called by `after_update` callback
  end

  def log_me
    puts "log_me method: called around the update method"
    yield
    puts "log_me method: block successfully called"
    # When update is called on an object, then this method is called by `around_update` callback
  end
end
```

The above class will yield the following which indicates the order in which the
callbacks are being called:

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

irb> person.update
reset_me method: called before the update method
log_me method: called around the update method
update method called
log_me method: block successfully called
finalize_me method: called after the update method
=> nil
```

As per the above example, when defining an 'around' callback remember to `yield`
to the block, otherwise, it won't be executed.

#### Defining Specific Callbacks

You can choose to create specific callbacks by passing a hash to the
`define_model_callbacks` method:

```ruby

> define_model_callbacks :update, :create,  only: [:after, :before]

Reviewer 2: Nit: extra space.

```suggestion
define_model_callbacks :update, :create, only: [:after, :before]
```

```

The `only: <type>` hash will apply to all callbacks defined on that method call.
To get around this you can call the `define_model_callbacks` method as many
times as you need like below:

```ruby
define_model_callbacks :create,  only: :after
define_model_callbacks :update,  only: :before
define_model_callbacks :destroy, only: :around
```

This will create `after_create`, `before_update`, and `around_destroy` methods
only.

#### Defining Callbacks with a Class

You can pass a class to `before_<type>`, `after_<type>` and `around_<type>`, in
which case the callback will call that class's `<action>_<type>` method thus
passing the object that the callback is being called on.

> 

Reviewer: This one is difficult for me to understand. It feels very inception-like. 😅 I think the heavy use of 'call', 'callback', and 'called' is tripping me up here. Can we diversify the vocab just a bit? Also, (newbie question) why would you use a class in a callback? Suggestions below. (I pulled the "why" from the Active Model Callbacks guide, feel free to change.)

You can pass a class to `before_<type>`, `after_<type>` and `around_<type>`**for more control over when and in what context your callbacks are triggered.**. The callback will **trigger** that class's `<action>_<type>` method, passing an instance of the class as an argument. 

Not sure if that is technically correct, but hope you understand what I am trying to do.

Author: Thanks for taking a stab at this, your version provides more clarity, will work off that.

```ruby
  class MyModel
    extend ActiveModel::Callbacks
    define_model_callbacks :create

    before_create AnotherClass
  end

  class AnotherClass
    def self.before_create(obj)
      # obj is the MyModel instance that the callback is being called on
    end

>   end

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
class MyModel
  extend ActiveModel::Callbacks
  define_model_callbacks :create

  before_create AnotherClass
end

class AnotherClass
  def self.before_create(obj)
    # obj is the MyModel instance that the callback is being called on
  end
end
```

Also, maybe we could stick to the `Person` example we've used thus far?

```suggestion
class Person
  extend ActiveModel::Callbacks
  define_model_callbacks :create

  before_create PersonCallbacks
end

class PersonCallbacks
  def self.before_create(obj)
    # obj is the Person instance that the callback is being called on
  end
end
```

```

NOTE: `method_name` passed to `define_model_callbacks` must not end with `!`,
`?` or `=`. In addition, defining the same callback multiple times will
overwrite previous callback definitions.

Like the Active Record methods, the callback chain is aborted as soon as one of

> the methods throws `:abort`.

Reviewer 2: This is the first time we're seeing about `abort`, which is not specific to defining callbacks with a class. I wonder if this might warrant its own little section about how to abort the callbacks execution?

Author: I think that makes sense, I'll do some reading and add it to the docs.

### Conversion

`ActiveModel::Conversion` is a collection of methods that allow you to convert
your object to different forms for different purposes. A common use case is to
convert your object to a string or an integer to build URLs, form fields, and
more.

The `ActiveModel::Conversion` module adds the following methods: `to_model`,
`to_key`, `to_param`, and `to_partial_path` to classes.

The return values of the methods depend on whether `persisted?` is defined and

> if an `id` is provided. The `persisted?` method should return true if the object

Reviewer: Maybe make the formatting the same for true as it is for false: `true`

has been saved to the database or store, otherwise, it should return `false`.
The `id` should reference the id of the object or nil if the object is not
saved.

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::Conversion

  def initialize(id)
    @id = id
  end

  def persisted?
    true
  end
end
```

#### to_model

The `to_model` method returns the object itself.

```irb
irb> person = Person.new(1)
irb> person.to_model == person
=> true
```

If your model does not act like an Active Model object, then you should

> define`:to_model` yourself returning a proxy object that wraps your object with

Reviewer: space missing after define

Active Model compliant methods.

```ruby
class Person
  def to_model
    # a proxy object that wraps your object with Active Model compliant methods.
    PersonModel.new(self)
  end
end
```

#### to_key

The `to_key` method returns an array of the object's key attributes if any of
the attributes are set, whether or not the object is persisted. Returns nil if
there are no key attributes.

```irb
irb> person.to_key
=> [1]
```

NOTE: A key attribute is an attribute that is used to identify the object. For
example, in a database-backed model, the key attribute is the primary key.

#### to_param

The `to_param` method returns a `string` representation of the object's key
suitable for use in URLs, or `nil` in the case where `persisted?` is `false`.

```irb

> irb> person.to_param

Reviewer 3: Both the `to_key` and `to_param` return `nil` when I try this example...hm. This is with `Person` class definition from line 517.

```
>> person=Person.new(1)
=> #<Person:0x00007fe0c7c97688 @id=1>
>> person.to_model
=> #<Person:0x00007fe0c7c97688 @id=1>
>> person.to_model == person
=> true
>> person.to_key
=> nil
>> person.to_param
=> nil
>> person.to_partial_path
=> "people/person"
```

Author: Eek, I forgot to update the example with the `attribute_accessor`, thank you!

=> "1"
```

#### to_partial_path

The `to_partial_path` method returns a `string` representing the path associated

> with the object. ActionPack uses this to find a suitable partial to represent

Reviewer 2: If `ActionPack` refers to the module, then we should highlight it as code:

```suggestion
with the object. `ActionPack` uses this to find a suitable partial to represent
```

Otherwise it should be spaced:

```suggestion
with the object. Action Pack uses this to find a suitable partial to represent
```

the object.

```irb
irb> person.to_partial_path
=> "people/person"
```

### Dirty

`ActiveModel::Dirty` is useful for tracking changes made to model attributes
before they are saved. This functionality allows you to determine which
attributes have been modified, what their previous and current values are, and
perform actions based on those changes. It's particularly handy for auditing,
validation, and conditional logic within your application. It provides a way to
track changes in your object in the same way as Active Record.

An object becomes dirty when it has gone through one or more changes to its
attributes and has not been saved. It has attribute-based accessor methods.

To use `ActiveModel::Dirty`, you need to:

1. Include the module in your class.
- Define the attribute methods that you want to track changes for, using
  `define_attribute_methods`.
2. Call `[attr_name]_will_change!` before each change to the tracked attribute.
3. Call `changes_applied` after the changes are persisted.
4. Call `clear_changes_information` when you want to reset the changes
   information.

> 5. Call `restore_attributes` when you want to restore previous data.

Reviewer 2: This does appear to render correctly, but let's numerate them accordingly:

```suggestion
1. Include the module in your class.
2. Define the attribute methods that you want to track changes for, using
  `define_attribute_methods`.
3. Call `[attr_name]_will_change!` before each change to the tracked attribute.
4. Call `changes_applied` after the changes are persisted.
5. Call `clear_changes_information` when you want to reset the changes
   information.
6. Call `restore_attributes` when you want to restore previous data.
```

You can then use the methods provided by `ActiveModel::Dirty` to query the
object for its list of all changed attributes, the original values of the
changed attributes, and the changes made to the attributes.

Let's consider a Person class with attributes `first_name` and `last_name`:

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::Dirty

  define_attribute_methods :first_name, :last_name

  def initialize
    @first_name = nil
    @last_name = nil
  end

  def first_name
    @first_name

>   end

Reviewer 2: Minor suggestion / food for thought: maybe we can shorten this implementation a bit by removing the reader methods `first_name` and `last_name`, and doing `attr_reader :first_name, :last_name`? For the example the writer methods is really the ones that matter, the rest is kinda boilerplate.

Author: This makes sense!

  define_model_callbacks :update

  before_update :reset_me
  after_update :finalize_me
  around_update :log_me

>   # `define_model_callbacks` method containing `run_callbacks` which runs the callback for the given event

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # `define_model_callbacks` method containing `run_callbacks` which runs the callback(s) for the given event
```

  def update
    run_callbacks(:update) do
      puts "update method called"
    end
  end

  private

  # When update is called on an object, then this method is called by `before_update` callback
  def reset_me
    puts "reset_me method: called before the update method"
  end

  # When update is called on an object, then this method is called by `after_update` callback
  def finalize_me
    puts "finalize_me method: called after the update method"
  end

  # When update is called on an object, then this method is called by `around_update` callback
  def log_me
    puts "log_me method: called around the update method"
    yield
    puts "log_me method: block successfully called"
  end
end
```

The above class will yield the following which indicates the order in which the
callbacks are being called:

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

> 

Reviewer 2: I think we can omit the extra blank line on this one.
```suggestion
```

irb> person.update
reset_me method: called before the update method
log_me method: called around the update method
update method called
log_me method: block successfully called
finalize_me method: called after the update method
=> nil
```

As per the above example, when defining an 'around' callback remember to `yield`
to the block, otherwise, it won't be executed.

#### Defining Specific Callbacks

You can choose to create specific callbacks by passing a hash to the
`define_model_callbacks` method:

```ruby
define_model_callbacks :update, :create, only: [:after, :before]
```

The `only: <type>` hash will apply to all callbacks defined on that method call.
To get around this you can call the `define_model_callbacks` method as many

> times as you need like below:

Reviewer 2: Minor suggestion: move the mention of the option name `only` before the example, and show the callbacks that'd be created afterwards like you've done a few lines below for the second example:

````suggestion
You can choose to create specific callbacks by passing the `only` option to the
`define_model_callbacks` method:

```ruby
define_model_callbacks :update, :create, only: [:after, :before]
```

This will create only the `before_create` / `after_create` and `before_update` /
 `after_update` callbacks, but skip the `around_*` ones. The option will apply
to all callbacks defined on that method call. It's possible to call
`define_model_callbacks` multiple times, to specify different lifecycle events:
````

```ruby
define_model_callbacks :create, only: :after
define_model_callbacks :update, only: :before
define_model_callbacks :destroy, only: :around
```

This will create `after_create`, `before_update`, and `around_destroy` methods
only.

#### Defining Callbacks with a Class

You can pass a class to `before_<type>`, `after_<type>` and `around_<type>` for
more control over when and in what context your callbacks are triggered. The
callback will trigger that class's `<action>_<type>` method, passing an instance
of the class as an argument.

```ruby
class Person
  extend ActiveModel::Callbacks
  define_model_callbacks :create
  before_create PersonCallbacks
end
class PersonCallbacks
  def self.before_create(obj)
    # `obj` is the Person instance that the callback is being called on
  end

> end

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
class Person
  extend ActiveModel::Callbacks

  define_model_callbacks :create
  before_create PersonCallbacks
end

class PersonCallbacks
  def self.before_create(obj)
    # `obj` is the Person instance that the callback is being called on
  end
end
```

```

NOTE: `method_name` passed to `define_model_callbacks` must not end with `!`,
`?` or `=`. In addition, defining the same callback multiple times will

> overwrite previous callback definitions.

Reviewer 2: Thinking some more about this note, I think it's a general note about callbacks rather than specific to defining them with a class, right?

Maybe we can move it to the bottom of the initial section on callbacks?

Author: Yeah, i think that makes more sense!

#### Aborting Callbacks

Like the Active Record methods, the callback chain is aborted as soon as one of
the methods throws `:abort`. In addition, the transaction will also be canceled

> or reversed.

Reviewer 2: There's no concept of a "transaction" for Active Model. Here's a suggestion that moves the "how" first, and mentions similarities with AR second:

```suggestion
The callback chain can be aborted at any point in time by throwing `:abort`.
This is similar to how Active Record callbacks work.
```

In the example below, since we throw `:abort` before an update in the `reset_me`

> method, the remaining callback chain including `before_update` will be aborted.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps for the sake of extra clarity, we can mention that the code in `update` doesn't even get executed in this example?

```suggestion
In the example below, since we throw `:abort` before an update in the `reset_me`
method, the remaining callback chain including `before_update` will be aborted,
and the body of the `update` method won't be executed.
```

  end

  def log_me
    puts "log_me method: called around the update method"
    yield
    puts "log_me method: block successfully called"
  end
end
```

```
irb> person = Person.new

irb> person.update
reset_me method: called before the update method
=> false
```

### Conversion

[`ActiveModel::Conversion`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Conversion.html)
is a collection of methods that allow you to convert your object to different
forms for different purposes. A common use case is to convert your object to a
string or an integer to build URLs, form fields, and more.

The `ActiveModel::Conversion` module adds the following methods: `to_model`,
`to_key`, `to_param`, and `to_partial_path` to classes.

The return values of the methods depend on whether `persisted?` is defined and
if an `id` is provided. The `persisted?` method should return `true` if the
object has been saved to the database or store, otherwise, it should return
`false`. The `id` should reference the id of the object or nil if the object is
not saved.

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::Conversion
  attr_accessor :id

  def initialize(id)
    @id = id
  end

  def persisted?

>     true

Reviewer 2: How about this:

```suggestion
    id.present?
```

This functionality allows you to determine which attributes have been modified,
what their previous and current values are, and perform actions based on those
changes. It's particularly handy for auditing, validation, and conditional logic
within your application. It provides a way to track changes in your object in
the same way as Active Record.

An object becomes dirty when it has gone through one or more changes to its
attributes and has not been saved. It has attribute-based accessor methods.

To use `ActiveModel::Dirty`, you need to:

1. Include the module in your class.
2. Define the attribute methods that you want to track changes for, using
  `define_attribute_methods`.
3. Call `[attr_name]_will_change!` before each change to the tracked attribute.
4. Call `changes_applied` after the changes are persisted.
5. Call `clear_changes_information` when you want to reset the changes
   information.
6. Call `restore_attributes` when you want to restore previous data.

You can then use the methods provided by `ActiveModel::Dirty` to query the
object for its list of all changed attributes, the original values of the
changed attributes, and the changes made to the attributes.

> Let's consider a Person class with attributes `first_name` and `last_name` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's consider a `Person` class with attributes `first_name` and `last_name` and
```

determine how we can use `ActiveModel::Dirty` to track changes to these
attributes.

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::Dirty

  attr_reader :first_name, :last_name
  define_attribute_methods :first_name, :last_name

  def initialize
    @first_name = nil
    @last_name = nil
  end

  def first_name=(value)
    first_name_will_change! unless value == @first_name
    @first_name = value
  end

  def last_name=(value)
    last_name_will_change! unless value == @last_name
    @last_name = value
  end

  def save
    # Persist data - clears dirty data and moves `changes` to `previously_changed`.
    changes_applied
  end

  def reload!
    # Clears all dirty data: current changes and previous changes.
    clear_changes_information
  end

  def rollback!
   # Restores all previous data of the provided attributes.
    restore_attributes
  end
end
```

#### Querying an Object Directly for its List of All Changed Attributes

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

# A newly instantiated `Person` object is unchanged:
irb> person.changed?
=> false

irb> person.first_name = "Jane Doe"
irb> person.first_name
=> "Jane Doe"
```

> **`changed?`** returns true if any of the attributes have unsaved changes,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**`changed?`** returns `true` if any of the attributes have unsaved changes,
```

`false` otherwise.

```irb
irb> person.changed?
=> true
```

**`changed`** returns an array with the name of the attributes containing
unsaved changes.

```irb
irb> person.changed
=> ["first_name"]
```

**`changed_attributes`** returns a hash of the attributes with unsaved changes
indicating their original values like `attr => original value`.

```irb
irb> person.changed_attributes
=> {"first_name" => nil}
```

**`changes`** returns a hash of changes, with the attribute names as the keys,
and the values as an array of the original and new values like `attr =>

> [original value, new value]`.

Reviewer 2: Note: I'm not sure what the solution is, or if there's any, but it seems the formatter is not liking these code blocks with `[]` and line breaks for some reason:

![Screenshot 2024-02-26 at 11 57 33](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/24714b91-7ae9-46ad-9ef6-14f568f2a134)
![Screenshot 2024-02-26 at 11 55 06](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/2661c206-26be-4fc6-a1bf-d7ae0edba2c0)

![Screenshot 2024-02-26 at 11 56 38](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/2b706dc5-193b-4858-9fcd-12b356eaa20f)
![Screenshot 2024-02-26 at 11 56 58](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/3843306e-7818-4c21-9929-3e18e69020eb)

Author: Hmmm, I tried a few things but couldn't get the formatting better. I could break the column count on these lines so that it doesn't try to wrap in the middle of the array, how strict are we about this?

Reviewer 2: It's not a problem if we go over the line length here and there, fine to do it on these.

(it might just make "auto wrapping" not work in the whole file, but it's seems unlikely that'll be done again any time soon anyway.)

```
irb> person.changes
=> {"first_name" => [nil, "Jane Doe"]}
```

**`previous_changes`** returns a hash of attributes that were changed before the

> model was saved.

Reviewer 2: Would it be useful to reference or clarify that it's actually before we call `changes_applied`? (i.e. that saving is part of the example, in a couple of these examples)

Author: @carlosantoniodasilva apologies I'm not 100% certain I'm understanding your comment properly, are you suggesting something like this: 

```
**`previous_changes`** returns a hash of attributes that were changed before the
model was saved (i.e. before `changes_applied` is called in the above example)
```

OR 

```
**`previous_changes`** returns a hash of attributes that were changed before the method `changes_applied` is called.
```
and apply either of these to everwhere in that section where we refer to "model was saved".

Reviewer 2: Sorry I should've made that clearer. I was just thinking about making a connection that for "dirty" what really matters is calling `changes_applied`. (this implementation just happens to wrap it with a `save` method, much like Active Record does.) Something like the first example you showed seems good to me.

  end

  def last_name=(value)
    last_name_will_change! unless value == @last_name
    @last_name = value
  end

  def save
    # Persist data - clears dirty data and moves `changes` to `previously_changed`.
    changes_applied
  end

  def reload!
    # Clears all dirty data: current changes and previous changes.
    clear_changes_information
  end

  def rollback!

>    # Restore all previous data of the provided attributes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Restores all previous data of the provided attributes.
```

    restore_attributes
  end
end
```

#### Querying an Object Directly for its List of All Changed Attributes

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

# A newly instantiated `Person` object is unchanged:
irb> person.changed?
=> false

irb> person.first_name = "Jane Doe"
irb> person.first_name
=> "Jane Doe"
```

**`changed?`** returns true if any of the attributes have unsaved changes,
`false` otherwise.

```irb
irb> person.changed?
=> true
```

**`changed`** returns an array with the name of the attributes containing
unsaved changes.

```irb
irb> person.changed
=> ["first_name"]
```

**`changed_attributes`** returns a hash of the attributes with unsaved changes
indicating their original values like `attr => original value`.

```irb
irb> person.changed_attributes
=> {"first_name"=>nil}
```

> **`changes`** returns a Hash of changes, with the attribute names as the keys,

Reviewer: hash doesn't need to be capitalized here

and the values as an array of the original and new values like `attr =>
[original value, new value]`.

```
irb> person.changes
=> {"first_name"=>[nil, "Jane Doe"]}
```

**`previous_changes`** returns a hash of attributes that were changed before the
model was saved.

```irb

> irb> person.save

Reviewer 2: How about we add a call to `previous_changes` before calling `save`, to show nothing is there yet? e.g.:

```suggestion
irb> person.previous_changes
=> {}

irb> person.save
```

irb> person.previous_changes
=> {"first_name"=>[nil, "Jane Doe"]}
```

#### Attribute-based Accessor Methods

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

irb> person.changed?
=> false

irb> person.first_name = "John Doe"
irb> person.first_name
=> "John Doe"
```

> **[attr_name]_changed?** checks whether the particular attribute has been

Reviewer 2: Let's highlight these as code as well, similar to the ones in the previous sub-section:

```suggestion
**`[attr_name]_changed?`** checks whether the particular attribute has been
```

changed or not.

```
irb> person.first_name_changed?
=> true
```

> **[attr_name]_was** tracks the previous value of the attribute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**`[attr_name]_was`** tracks the previous value of the attribute.
```

```irb
irb> person.first_name_was
=> nil
```

**[attr_name]_change** tracks both the previous and current values of the

> changed attribute. Returns an array if changed, otherwise returns nil.

Reviewer 2: I think the format you used to describe changes earlier like `[original value, new value]` was nice, maybe can mention it similarly here as well?
```suggestion
**`[attr_name]_change`** tracks both the previous and current values of the
changed attribute. Returns an array with `[original value, new value]` if
changed, otherwise returns `nil`.
```

```irb
irb> person.first_name_change
=> [nil, "John Doe"]
irb> person.last_name_change
=> nil
```

**[attr_name]_previously_changed?** checks whether the particular attribute has

> been changed before the model was saved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**`[attr_name]_previously_changed?`** checks whether the particular attribute
has been changed before the model was saved.
```

Looks like wrapping in code for highlight also fixes a weird markup issue where it thing `_previously_` should be italic:

<details><summary>Details</summary>
<p>

_before_
![Screenshot 2024-02-19 at 10 18 47](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/c0e0081c-e9d2-47e4-9170-9b01589c326e)

_after_
![Screenshot 2024-02-19 at 10 19 31](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/4d315e54-cd15-4d2b-84cf-0752a4d65e35)

</p>
</details>

```irb
irb> person.first_name_previously_changed?
=> false
irb> person.save
irb> person.first_name_previously_changed?
=> true
```

**[attr_name]_previous_change** tracks both previous and current values of the
changed attribute before the model was saved. Returns an array if changed,

> otherwise returns nil.

Reviewer 2: Similar suggestion about the return value here:

```suggestion
**`[attr_name]_previous_change`** tracks both previous and current values of the
changed attribute before the model was saved. Returns an array with `[original
value, new value]` if changed, otherwise returns `nil`.
```

```irb
irb> person.first_name_previous_change
=> [nil, "John Doe"]
```

### Validations

The `ActiveModel::Validations` module adds the ability to validate objects and
it is important for ensuring data integrity and consistency within your
application. By incorporating validations into your models, you can define rules
that govern the correctness of attribute values before they are saved to the
database. This helps prevent invalid data from being persisted, maintaining the

> integrity of your database records.

Reviewer 2: I always wonder if we should be mentioning much "saved to the database" and such. This is for the most part historical to Active Record where validations were tied to saving an object to the DB, but it's not really "true" for Active Model. Validations will help guarantee integrity and prevent invalid data indeed, but maybe we can mention that in some way without the "database" and similar/related words?

irb> person.token = "2b1f325"
irb> person.valid?
=> false

irb> person.name = "vishnu"
irb> person.email = "me"
irb> person.valid?
=> false

> irb> person.email = "me@vishnuatrai.com"

Reviewer: I feel that for this contributor's sake, we shouldn't use his real email or URL, and all emails and URLs we do use should be dummies. (He might not mind himself, but let's not give the bots anything worthwhile to scrape.)

irb> person.valid?
=> true

# token uses validate! and will raise an exception when not set.
irb> person.token = nil
irb> person.valid?
=> "Token can't be blank (ActiveModel::StrictValidationFailed)"
```

#### Validation Methods and Options

You can add validations using some of the following methods:

- `validate`: Adds validation through a method or a block to the class. You can
  read more about how to use `validate`
  [here](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Validations/ClassMethods.html#method-i-validate).

> - `validates`:An attribute can be passed to the `validates` method and it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `validates`: An attribute can be passed to the `validates` method and it
```

  provides a shortcut to all default validators. You can read more about how to
  use `validates`
  [here](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Validations/ClassMethods.html#method-i-validates).

- `validates!` or setting `strict: true`: Used to define validations that cannot
  be corrected by end users and are considered exceptional. Each validator
  defined with a bang or `:strict` option set to true will always raise
  `ActiveModel::StrictValidationFailed` instead of adding to the errors when
  validation fails.

- `validates_with`: Passes the record off to the class or classes specified and
  allows them to add errors based on more complex conditions.

> - `validates_each`: Validates each attribute against a block.

Reviewer 2: Can we add links to the API for each of these as well? This would point people to learn more somewhere.

Some of the options below can be used with certain validators. To determine if
the option you're using can be used with a specific validator, read through the
documentation
[here](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Validations/ClassMethods.html).

- `:on`: Specifies the context in which to add the validation. You can pass a
symbol or an array of symbols. (e.g. `on: :create` or `on:
:custom_validation_context` or `on: [:create, :custom_validation_context]`).
Validations without an `:on` option will run no matter the context. Validations

> with some `:on` option will only run in the specified context.

Reviewer 2: Maybe just another line to mention something like that you can pass the context when validating via `valid?(:context)`?

- `:if`: Specifies a method, proc or string to call to determine if the
  validation should occur (e.g. `if: :allow_validation`, or `if: Proc.new {
  |user| user.signup_step > 2 }`). The method, proc or string should return or
  evaluate to a `true` or `false` value.

- `:unless`: Specifies a method, proc or string to call to determine if the
  validation should not occur (e.g. `unless: :skip_validation`, or `unless:
  Proc.new { |user| user.signup_step <= 2 }`). The method, proc or string should
  return or evaluate to a `true` or `false` value.

- `:allow_nil`: Skip the validation if the attribute is `nil`.

- `:allow_blank`: Skip the validation if the attribute is blank.

- `:strict`: If the `:strict` option is set to true, it will raise

>   ActiveModel::StrictValidationFailed instead of adding the error. `:strict`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `ActiveModel::StrictValidationFailed` instead of adding the error. `:strict`
```

  option can also be set to any other exception.

NOTE: Calling `validate` multiple times on the same method will overwrite
previous definitions.

#### Errors

`ActiveModel::Validations` automatically adds an `errors` method to your

> instances initialized with a new `ActiveModel::Errors` object, so there is no

Reviewer 2: Let's link to the API on errors.

https://edgeapi.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Errors.html

need for you to do this manually.

Run `valid?` on the object to check if the object is valid or not. If the object
is not valid, it will return `false` and the errors will be added to the
`errors` object.

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

irb> person.email = "me"
irb> person.valid?
=> Token can't be blank (ActiveModel::StrictValidationFailed)

irb> person.errors

> =>  {:name=>["can't be blank"], :email=>["is invalid"]}

Reviewer 2: `errors` no longer returns the hash, but the `Errors` object:

```ruby
irb> person.errors
=> #<ActiveModel::Errors [#<ActiveModel::Error attribute=name, type=blank, options={}>, #<ActiveModel::Error attribute=email, type=invalid, options={:value=>"me"}>]>
```

We can call `to_hash` to get that:

```suggestion
irb> person.errors.to_hash
=> {:name=>["can't be blank"], :email=>["is invalid"]}
```

We could also show `full_messages` just for the sake of adding another example on errors (one that I think is somewhat commonly used too):

```suggestion
irb> person.errors.to_hash
=> {:name=>["can't be blank"], :email=>["is invalid"]}

irb> person.errors.full_messages
=> ["Name can't be blank", "Email is invalid"]
```

```

### Naming

> `ActiveModel::Naming` adds several class methods which make naming and routing

Reviewer 2: Minor: This might be slightly off, as it doesn't add several _class_ methods, it adds a single one: `model_name`, which in turn has several helper methods that make naming and routing easier to manager.

easier to manage. The module defines the `model_name` class method which will

> define several accessors using some `ActiveSupport::Inflector` methods.

Reviewer 2: Let's link to the Inflector API as well.

```ruby
class Person
  extend ActiveModel::Naming
end
```

> **`name`** returns the name of the model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**`name`** returns the name of the model.
```

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.name
=> "Person"
```

**`singular`** returns the singular class name of a record or class.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.singular
=> "person"
```

**`plural`** returns the plural class name of a record or class.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.plural
=> "people"
```

> **`element`** returns a potentially namespaced class name to snake_case.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could clarify that it does remove the name spacing, leaving only the "singular" individual name.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.element
=> "person"
```

**`human`** transforms the model name into a more human format, using I18n. By
default, it will underscore and then humanize the class name.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.human
=> "Person"
```
**`collection`** returns the name of a table like Rails does for models to table

> names. It uses the pluralize method on the last word in the string.

Reviewer 2: This might be slightly misleading, as `collection` won't return a table-like name for namespaces:

```ruby
> Foo::Bar.model_name.collection
=> "foo/bars"
```

I see `element` and `collection` more for Action Pack / Action View usage than anything else, for rendering partials/forms and the like, so it can figure out the right names / lookups.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.collection
=> "people"
```

**`param_key`** returns a string to use for params names. It differs for

> namespaced models regarding whether it's inside an isolated engine.

Reviewer 2: This got me thinking that maybe more changes in Naming when we are inside an engine, and that perhaps if we want to mention something, we could add a note at the bottom of this section and point to the engines guide or something, otherwise if feels like just this one is affected.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.param_key
=> "person"
```

**`i18n_key`** returns the name of the i18n key. It underscores the model name
and then returns it as a symbol.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.i18n_key
=> :person
```

**`route_key`** returns a string to use while generating route names. It differs
for namespaced models regarding whether it's inside isolated engine.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.route_key
=> "people"
```

**`singular_route_key`** returns a string to use while generating route names.
It differs for namespaced models regarding whether it's inside isolated engine.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.singular_route_key
=> "person"
```

**`uncountable?`** identifies whether the class name of a record or class is
uncountable.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.uncountable?
=> false
```

### Model

`ActiveModel::Model` includes ActiveModel::API for the required interface to
allow an object to interact with Action Pack and Action View, but it will be
extended in the future to add more functionality.

Currently, when including `ActiveModel::Model` you get the features from

> [ActiveModel::API](active_model_basics.html#api).

Reviewer 2: Since this is on the same guide, we should be able to simply use the anchor to reference it:

```suggestion
[ActiveModel::API](#api).
```

Update: I think we might be able to merge these two paragraphs and link on the above one, since both mention that what you get with model is essentially API. Maybe a very minimal example so it's not just a paragraph? (we can even steal the one from the api docs: https://edgeapi.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Model.html)

### Serialization

`ActiveModel::Serialization` provides basic serialization to a serializable hash
for your objects. You need to declare an attributes Hash which should contain
the attributes you want to serialize. Attributes must be strings, not symbols.

> 

Reviewer: I think between the 2 opening paragraphs here, the previous one might suffice. And hash doesn't need capitalization.

```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::Serialization

  attr_accessor :name, :age

  def attributes

>     # compulsory declaration of attributes to serialize

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # declaration of attributes that will be serialized
```

    {"name" => nil, "age" => nil}
  end

  def capitalized_name

>   # an example of how we can define a method that will be included a serialized hash

Reviewer 2: Minor suggestion:

```suggestion
    # declared methods can be later included in the serialized hash
```

>     name.capitalize

Reviewer 2: Nit: we could make the method not "error" if name isn't set, just for the sake of a more complete example:

```suggestion
    name&.capitalize
```

  end
end
```

Now you can access a serialized Hash of your object using the
`serializable_hash` method. Valid options for serializable hash include `:only`,
`:except`, `:methods` and `:include`.

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

irb> person.serializable_hash
=> {"name"=>nil, "age"=>nil}

> # setting the name and age attributes and then serializing the object

Reviewer: Another question about consistency with comments: 
Should they always be:
Challenging verbs? : # Set the name and age attributes
Or present participle? : # Setting the name and age attributes

Author: I vote for challenging verbs here  # Set the name and age attributes

Reviewer: I'd also lean in that direction.

Author: I updated this based on the docs that state "use present tense and brevity" which align with the challenging verbs.

irb> person.name = "bob"
irb> person.age = 22
irb> person.serializable_hash
=> {"name"=>"bob", "age"=>22}

# using the methods option to include the capitalized_name method
irb>  person.serializable_hash(methods: :capitalized_name)
=> {"name"=>"bob", "age"=>22, "capitalized_name"=>"Bob"}

# using the only method to include only the name attribute
irb> person.serializable_hash(only: :name)
=> {"name"=>"bob"}

# using the except method to exclude the name attribute
irb> person.serializable_hash(except: :name)
=> {"age"=>22}
```

The example to utilize the `includes` option requires a slightly more complex
scenario as defined below:

```ruby
  class Person
   include ActiveModel::Serialization
   attr_accessor :name, :notes # Emulate has_many :notes

    def attributes
       {"name" => nil}
    end
  end

  class Note
    include ActiveModel::Serializers::JSON
    attr_accessor :title, :text
    def attributes
      {"title" => nil, "text" => nil}
    end
  end
```

> 

Reviewer 2: A couple of minor things: fix indent (all to the left); fix indent of attributes method body; include `ActiveModel::Serialization` instead of `Serializers::JSON` in `Note`

````suggestion
```ruby
class Person
  include ActiveModel::Serialization
  attr_accessor :name, :notes # Emulate has_many :notes

  def attributes
    {"name" => nil}
  end
end

class Note
  include ActiveModel::Serialization
  attr_accessor :title, :text

  def attributes
    {"title" => nil, "text" => nil}
  end
end
```
````

```irb
irb> note = Note.new
irb> note.title = "Weekend Plans"
irb> note.text = "Some text here"

irb> person = Person.new
irb> person.name = "Napoleon"
irb> person.notes = [note]

irb> person.serializable_hash
=> {"name" => "Napoleon"}

> irb> person.serializable_hash(include: { notes: { only: "title" }})

Reviewer 3: This is a good example, illustrating lot of the capabilities.

=> {"name" => "Napoleon", "notes" => [{"title"=>"Weekend Plans"}]}
```

> #### ActiveModel::Serializers

Reviewer: I think this title can be : #### ActiveModel::Serializers::JSON and the one on line 1097 can be removed.

Author: I think the line numbers have changed since you commented, can you point out which header you were referring to on line 1097?

Reviewer: I think we can change the main header here from ActiveModel::Serializers to ActiveModel::Serializers::JSON since this whole section refers to JSON serializing.

<img width="714" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-23 at 14 10 01" src="https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/58528404/a687fac9-b2e4-47c1-a4c4-d320048d773d">

Active Model also provides the `ActiveModel::Serializers::JSON` module for JSON
serializing / deserializing.

##### ActiveModel::Serializers::JSON

To use `ActiveModel::Serializers::JSON` you only need to change the module you
are including from `ActiveModel::Serialization` to
`ActiveModel::Serializers::JSON`. This is because the
`ActiveModel::Serializers::JSON` module automatically includes the
`ActiveModel::Serialization` module, so there is no need to explicitly include

> `ActiveModel::Serialization`.

Reviewer 2: ETooManySerializationError 😅 

Small suggestion that might simplify it a bit:

```suggestion
To use the JSON serialization, change the module you are including from
`ActiveModel::Serialization` to `ActiveModel::Serializers::JSON`. It already
includes the former, so there is no need to explicitly include it.
```

Author: LOL, Thank you!

irb> person.token = "2b1f325"
irb> person.valid?
=> false

irb> person.name = "vishnu"
irb> person.email = "me"
irb> person.valid?
=> false

irb> person.email = "me@vishnuatrai.com"
irb> person.valid?
=> true

# token uses validate! and will raise an exception when not set.
irb> person.token = nil
irb> person.valid?
=> "Token can't be blank (ActiveModel::StrictValidationFailed)"
```

#### Validation Methods and Options

You can add validations using some of the following methods:

- `validate`: Adds validation through a method or a block to the class. You can
  read more about how to use `validate`

>   [here](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Validations/ClassMethods.html#method-i-validate).

Author: I can add more details about how to use `validate` here, it could be useful, it was duplicating whats in the API guide and I'd given a base example already so instead I referenced the link.   

Throughout the guide, I've tried to balance between outlining the details in the guides vs linking to the outlined details in the API. I made a lot of judgment calls based on the information being conveyed. I hope that I got that balance right, but I'm open to feedback if anyone thinks I could be detailing more or less.

Reviewer 2: :+1: I don't think we need to be extremely detailed as to explain every option and method call, no. The guides should provide an initial overview of the feature(s), its main usage, an example (or multiple if needed), and point to the API where people can read further, where all the nitty-gritty should be, all available options, etc. Otherwise I think we end up duplicating a lot of content.

In case of validations specifically, I think we might end up extracting a separate guide only for it (or rather, splitting the AR guide into two), so there's that to keep in mind.

`errors` object.

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

irb> person.email = "me"
irb> person.valid?
=> # Raises Token can't be blank (ActiveModel::StrictValidationFailed)

irb> person.errors.to_hash
=> {:name => ["can't be blank"], :email => ["is invalid"]}

irb> person.errors.full_messages
=> ["Name can't be blank", "Email is invalid"]
```

### Naming

[`ActiveModel::Naming`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Naming.html)
adds a class method and helper methods to make naming and routing easier to
manage. The module defines the `model_name` class method which will define
several accessors using some
[`ActiveSupport::Inflector`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Inflector.html)
methods.

```ruby
class Person
  extend ActiveModel::Naming
end
```

**`name`** returns the name of the model.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.name
=> "Person"
```

**`singular`** returns the singular class name of a record or class.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.singular
=> "person"
```

**`plural`** returns the plural class name of a record or class.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.plural
=> "people"
```

**`element`** removes the namespace and returns the singular snake_cased name.

> It is generally used For Action Pack and/or Action View helpers to aid in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is generally used by Action Pack and/or Action View helpers to aid in
```

rendering the name of partials/forms.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.element
=> "person"
```

**`human`** transforms the model name into a more human format, using I18n. By
default, it will underscore and then humanize the class name.

```irb
irb> Person.model_name.human
=> "Person"
```
**`collection`** removes the namespace and returns the plural snake_cased name.

> It is generally used For Action Pack and/or Action View helpers to aid in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is generally used by Action Pack and/or Action View helpers to aid in
```

  attr_accessor :name

  def attributes

>     { "name" => nil }

Reviewer 2: Nit: many of the examples above define the hash without inner spaces, let's maybe use the same style across the board?

Looks like Rails prefers with the inner space: https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/cd4a5b07332c8b1f1101d43b4db736e7d75dbdc3/.rubocop.yml#L196-L198, so let's maybe apply that across the board. (in the previous examples, I mean)

  end
end
```

> The `as_json` method, similar to `serializable_hash`, provides a Hash

Reviewer: Hash can be lowercased.

Reviewer: String can be lowercased.

Author: I could use clarity on when to use hash vs Hash - I guess `Hash` would probably be when we're referring to the actual [Class method](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.5.1/Hash.html) rather than just talking about the data structure? I noticed that they're being capitalized in https://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html which confused me slightly.

representing the model with its keys as a String. The `to_json` method returns a
JSON string representing the model.

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

> # a Hash representing the model with its keys as a String

Reviewer: Hash and String can be lowercased.

  def attributes=(hash)
    hash.each do |key, value|
      public_send("#{key}=", value)
    end
  end

  def attributes
    { "name" => nil }
  end
end
```

Now it is possible to create an instance of `Person` and set attributes using
`from_json`.

```irb
irb> json = { name: "Bob" }.to_json
=> "{\"name\":\"Bob\"}"

irb> person = Person.new

# defining the attributes for a model from a JSON string
irb> person.from_json(json)
=> #<Person:0x00000100c773f0 @name="Bob">

irb> person.name
=> "Bob"
```

### Translation

`ActiveModel::Translation` provides integration between your object and the

> Rails internationalization (i18n) framework.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we take the opportunity and link to the I18n guide as well?

```

With the `human_attribute_name` method, you can transform attribute names into a
more human-readable format. The human-readable format is defined in your locale
file(s).

  config/locales/app.pt-BR.yml

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: Maybe move it to a comment inside the YAML?
````suggestion
```yaml
# config/locales/app.pt-BR.yml
````

pt-BR:
  activemodel:
    attributes:
      person:
        name: "Nome"
```

```irb

> irb> Person.human_attribute_name("name")
> => "Nome"

Reviewer 2: It might be nice showing this by setting `I18n.locale`, e.g.:

```suggestion
irb> Person.human_attribute_name("name")
=> "Name"

irb> I18n.locale = :"pt-BR"
=> :"pt-BR"
irb> Person.human_attribute_name("name")
=> "Nome"
```

Reviewer 3: Nice. I didn't know you could do that.

```

### Lint Tests

`ActiveModel::Lint::Tests` allows you to test whether an object is compliant
with the Active Model API by including `ActiveModel::Lint::Tests` in your

> TestCase. It will include tests that tell you whether your object is fully

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with the Active Model API. By including `ActiveModel::Lint::Tests` in your
TestCase, it will include tests that tell you whether your object is fully
```

compliant, or if not, which aspects of the API are not implemented.

These tests do not attempt to determine the semantic correctness of the returned
values. For instance, you could implement `valid?` to always return `true`, and
the tests would pass. It is up to you to ensure that the values are semantically

> meaningful.

Reviewer 3: Nice example

  attr_accessor :name

  def attributes
    { "name" => nil }
  end
end
```

The `as_json` method, similar to `serializable_hash`, provides a hash
representing the model with its keys as a string. The `to_json` method returns a
JSON string representing the model.

```irb
irb> person = Person.new

# A hash representing the model with its keys as a string
irb> person.as_json
=> {"name" => nil}

# A JSON string representing the model
irb> person.to_json
=> "{\"name\":null}"

irb> person.name = "Bob"
irb> person.as_json
=> {"name" => "Bob"}

irb> person.to_json
=> "{\"name\":\"Bob\"}"
```

You can also define the attributes for a model from a JSON string. However, you

> need to define the `attributes=` method in your class:

Reviewer 2: Nit: `However` feels slightly off here, maybe something like this?

```suggestion
You can also define the attributes for a model from a JSON string. To do that,
first define the `attributes=` method in your class:
```

6 runs, 30 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 0 skips
```

### SecurePassword

`ActiveModel::SecurePassword` provides a way to securely store any password in
an encrypted form. When you include this module, a `has_secure_password` class
method is provided which defines a `password` accessor with certain validations
on it by default.

#### Requirements

`ActiveModel::SecurePassword` depends on
[`bcrypt`](https://github.com/codahale/bcrypt-ruby 'BCrypt'), so include this

> gem in your `Gemfile` to use `ActiveModel::SecurePassword`.

Reviewer 2: Trying to remove multiple mentions of the module name.

```suggestion
gem in your `Gemfile` to use it.
```

```ruby
gem "bcrypt"
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe we need another subtitle here? it feels like everything is under "requirements":

![Screenshot 2024-02-19 at 13 23 28](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/84a4e6cd-238b-4889-9878-7ad819271980)

Or maybe we just remove the "requirements" subtitle.

`ActiveModel::SecurePassword` requires you to have a `password_digest`
attribute.

> The following validations are added automatically:

Reviewer 2: Need a line break in order for it to proper generate the numbered list:

```suggestion
The following validations are added automatically:

```

<details><summary>Details</summary>
<p>

_before_
![Screenshot 2024-02-19 at 13 25 01](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/5c9865d1-f5ba-4442-96cd-d7146e7731c6)

_after_
![Screenshot 2024-02-19 at 13 25 26](https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/32eb362e-61e4-4d57-ab1b-293a47197654)

</p>
</details>

1. Password must be present on creation.

> 2. Confirmation of password (using a `password_confirmation` attribute)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Confirmation of password. (using a `password_confirmation` attribute)
```

> 3. The maximum length of a password is 72 bytes (required as `bcrypt`, on which
>    ActiveModel::SecurePassword depends, truncates the string to this size before
>    encrypting it).

Reviewer 2: We've just mentioned above that bcrypt is a requirement of SecurePassword, maybe we can simplify this a bit here by removing that mention?

```suggestion
3. The maximum length of a password is 72 bytes (required as `bcrypt` truncates
   the string to this size before encrypting it).
```

If password confirmation validation is not needed, simply leave out the value
for `password_confirmation` (i.e. don't provide a form field for it). When this

> attribute has a `nil` value, the validation will not be triggered.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this could be a note? It sounds extra useful to know.

```

With the `human_attribute_name` method, you can transform attribute names into a
more human-readable format. The human-readable format is defined in your locale
file(s).

```yaml
# config/locales/app.pt-BR.yml
pt-BR:
  activemodel:
    attributes:
      person:
        name: "Nome"
```

```irb
irb> Person.human_attribute_name("name")
=> "Name"

irb> I18n.locale = :"pt-BR"
=> :"pt-BR"
irb> Person.human_attribute_name("name")
=> "Nome"
```

> ### Lint Tests

Reviewer 2: This is food for thought, so I'm sharing for discussion in case others think it makes sense: while all other sections more or less follow an alphabetical order (it's not all, some are mixed, but it sort of starts like that), I believe `Lint::Tests` were put last because they are much less relevant and only really necessary to understand if you're not using Model or API yourself, i.e. if you're building some object that needs compliance with Action Pack / View somehow.

Later `SecurePassword` was introduced, and it was put last in the guide, I'm assuming it was just "appended" as new documentation, rather than putting it in any specific order.

I guess what I'm saying is that while it might not make sense to move more sections around, it might perhaps make sense to at least swap these and have `Lint::Tests` be last?

Author: I was thinking about the order as well - I added the new sections in alphabetic order but didn't change the order of the existing ones.  

> I guess what I'm saying is that while it might not make sense to move more sections around, it might perhaps make sense to at least swap these and have Lint::Tests be last?

Looking at the index, I do like the thought of "loosely" alphabetizing the sections (in this particular guide) especially since the sections are scoped and not dependant on each other. "Loosely alphabetizing" means we could move Lint::Tests to the last position since they're less relevant.

Right now everything under Dirty looks a little random: 
<img width="307" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-26 at 22 48 42" src="https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/2786819/1ce52bf2-3146-4a2a-9607-9156f663f77c">

and it may look better like this: 
<img width="247" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-26 at 23 07 24" src="https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/2786819/e3bcbe56-2692-4b59-b0c9-b6a178297741">

If we don't want to do this though, I think moving `Lint::Tests` to the last position makes sense.

Reviewer 2: I like that :+1:

=> false

# When the confirmation doesn't match the password.
irb> person.password = "aditya"
irb> person.password_confirmation = "nomatch"
irb> person.valid?
=> false

# When the length of password exceeds 72.
irb> person.password = person.password_confirmation = "a" * 100
irb> person.valid?
=> false

# When only password is supplied with no password_confirmation.
irb> person.password = "aditya"
irb> person.valid?
=> true

# When all validations are passed.
irb> person.password = person.password_confirmation = "aditya"
irb> person.valid?
=> true

irb> person.recovery_password = "42password"

> irb> person.authenticate("aditya")

Reviewer 2: It might be worth adding a comment that `authenticate` is essentially a shortcut to `authenticate_password`. (first read through these examples might sound confusing, as to why there's two methods)

=> #<Person> # == person
irb> person.authenticate("notright")
=> false
irb> person.authenticate_password("aditya")
=> #<Person> # == person
irb> person.authenticate_password("notright")
=> false

> irb> person.authenticate_recovery_password("42password")

Reviewer 3: Maybe illustrate that 'password' and 'recovery_password' are different with this added example:

```suggestion
irb> person.authenticate_recovery_password("aditya")
=> false
irb> person.authenticate_recovery_password("42password")
```
